Dear Sir/Madam,
 
My name is Deven Mistry and I am pleased to apply for the position of Software Engineer at The Home Depot. I was ecstatic to find this opening on the website and feel that my skills and studies make me a perfect fit for the role. 
 
As a graduate student, I have had the experience of working in various environments due to which I have become more adaptive and a flexible person. The work experience that I have got as an intern have made me efficient at time management, putting in collaborative efforts and have prepared me for the deadlines and team demands. I can code well in C, Java, and Python. I am even familiar with C#. I have a substantial understanding of object-oriented programming. Even my senior year project was developed in Python and Django. So, I am quite acquainted with working in Python and Django. The project was developed to address an issue which our college faced with marking the attendance of students. The developed system marked and stored the attendance of a group of people by applying face recognition. The time required to record attendance was cut off by 95%. During my undergrad, I have done a few projects on SQL and I well acquainted with its functionality. My past internship experience at the Bhakti Vedanta Hospital and Research Centre was a great learning experience. During that internship I and my team were supposed to daily interact with doctors, and other staff of the hospital; understand their requirements, then brainstorm and build easy to use web applications. We developed SaaS based web applications and personalized database connected dashboards for the Medical Admin Department. We used data visualization tools and wrote efficient queries to retrieve data from the hospital’s database. The dashboards gave a systematic view of the daily stats of the hospital (like, the number of patients admitted, patients treated in ER, number of vacant beds and so on). The dashboards even had the option of viewing the data in graphical format to see trends/pattern in the data. The internship was a great for success for me and I am proud to say that, the applications which we built in that limited time frame for the hospital are still being used by the hospital today. What draws me most for this job is that as a student and I have always been fond of learning new things and growing my skillset. I am a problem solver and I like being surrounded my creative and motivated people. If I by any means lack at something required for the job, I would make sure I learn that thing well and yield better results, the next time I do that thing. I take new projects head-on and I am willing to learn skills which help me become a better individual.  When I work on something, I make sure I finish what is expected out of me even if it requires me to put in extra efforts. I assure you; I will give my 100% for this job and I will bring out the best results from the projects I work on.

I have enclosed my resume, which further details my education and experience. I look forward to the opportunity to discuss my skills and qualifications in person at your earliest convenience. Please reach me by email at mistryds@mail.uc.edu or by phone at (513)884-0574. Thank you for your time, and I look forward to hearing from you soon. 


Sincerely,
Deven Mistry
