Being subjected to Hate Speech results in negative consequences for the victim. Exposure to the verbal assaults of Hate Speech has empirically shown both physical effects and emotional traumas. The following ailments have been linked to those exposed to racist speech: high blood pressure, post-traumatic stress disorder, anxiety, drug use, and depression, to name a few. For women, sexualized Hate Speech can lead to self-objectification which is associated with eating disorders. All of the previously mentioned effects have also been shown to decrease academic performance, a serious impact on young people (Nielsen). These outcomes expose the pernicious nature of Hate Speech; words are not just sounds, but they result in tangible negative effects. Words leading to such destruction should not be allowed in any society. Hate Speech can also result in direct harm by inciting others to behave abusively. As Susan Benesch, a United Nations commissioned legal scholar explains,“Speech alone cannot bring about genocide," but it is "a catalyst to spread violence” (Magni). Through peer pressure and brainwashing, public expression of Hate Speech results in an increase of discrimination against other groups. The UN recognizes this fact and has advocated for laws against the “dissemination of ideas based on racial superiority or hatred,” which the United States has refused to honor (Sanneh). There are many examples proving the validity of the United Nations’ assertion that the allowance of Hate Speech can result in atrocities by uniting a community, but one showing the true extent of this effect can be seen in the Rwandan genocide. Radio Television Libre des Mille Collines (RTLM) is a radio station that broadcasted from 1993 to 1994, spreading racial propaganda against Tutsis and moderate Hutus. The station is regarded as having played a crucial role in uniting the racist cause. One study by David Yanagizawa of the Institute for International Economic Studies at Stockholm University uncovered a direct link between the RTLM broadcasts and an increase in violence leading to 45,000 Tutsi deaths (Magni). One victim and survivor of the Rwandan Genocide is Adeline. At the age of 19, the genocide began and she saw members of her
